Add net_printer/README.md (#2)
Xilinx/fpga24_routing_contest: net_printer/README.md

# FPGA Interchange Format Physical Netlist Net Printer `np.py`

> `np.py` is a simple python program for printing out nets from an FPGAIF `*.phys`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`np.py` is a simple python program for printing out net routing from an FPGAIF `*.phys`
```

file. This program is provided to aid in the development of a contestant router,
by providing some visibility into the input and output files that contestant
routers consume and emit.

Consider the following example output:

```
$ python3 np.py ../vtr_mcml_rwroute.phys u_calc/boundaryChecker/r_ux__57_reg[21]_srl27___u_calc_dropSpin_photon29_o_sleftz_reg_r_n_0
============================================================
Route tree for net: u_calc/boundaryChecker/r_ux__57_reg[21]_srl27___u_calc_dropSpin_photon29_o_sleftz_reg_r_n_0

    Source: 0
    [{      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C6LUT O6
     {      sitePIP SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6 False
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC OUT
         }  sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 CMUX
     {   }  belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6
            sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 C_O

>      {   }  belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C_O C_O

Reviewer: This doesn't look correct. The latest benchmarks have this:
```
    [{      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C6LUT O6
     {      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6
            sitePIP SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6 False
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC OUT
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 CMUX CMUX
         }  sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 CMUX
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C_O C_O
            sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 C_O
```

Reviewer: Don't forget to explanation text below too.

Author: please see: 21375b89bb708c37ea993de441617d81958e7896

            pip     INT_X54Y94 INT_NODE_SDQ_49_INT_OUT1 EE2_W_BEG1 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y94 EE2_W_END1 INT_NODE_SDQ_49_INT_OUT1 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y94 INT_NODE_SDQ_49_INT_OUT1 SS1_W_BEG1 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y93 SS1_W_END1 INT_NODE_SDQ_50_INT_OUT1 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y93 INT_NODE_SDQ_50_INT_OUT1 SS2_W_BEG1 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y91 SS2_W_END1 INT_NODE_SDQ_54_INT_OUT0 False False
            pip     INT_X55Y91 INT_NODE_SDQ_54_INT_OUT0 EE4_W_BEG1 False False
            pip     INT_X57Y91 EE4_W_END1 INT_NODE_SDQ_53_INT_OUT1 False False
            pip     INT_X57Y91 INT_NODE_SDQ_53_INT_OUT1 EE2_W_BEG2 False False
            pip     INT_X58Y91 EE2_W_END2 INT_NODE_IMUX_37_INT_OUT0 False False
            pip     INT_X58Y91 INT_NODE_IMUX_37_INT_OUT0 BYPASS_W8 True False
            sitePin SLICE_X90Y91 EX
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EX EX
     {   }  belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP
            sitePIP SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP False
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 OUT1
         }] belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EFF D
============================================================
```

> In this example `np.py` is invoked on the netlist `vtr_mcml_rwroute.phys` (This

Reviewer: State somewhere that net names are an exact match, and that one or more nets are supported please.

Author: resolved: 933f1852104d304befa58ef7add3f5f9cb4e03ed

netlist that can be generated from a global `make`,
see [the contest website](https://xilinx.github.io/fpga24_routing_contest/index.html))
in order to printout the net named `u_calc/boundaryChecker/r_ux__57_reg[21]_srl27___u_calc_dropSpin_photon29_o_sleftz_reg_r_n_0`.
Since this is a fully routed net the output shows one source (`Source: 0`) and
no stubs. Following the source is a list of all of the edges (FPGAIF

> routeSegements) in the route tree. The symbol `[{` indicates root of the tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
routeSegments) in the route tree. Much like Vivado's `report_route_status` command, the symbol `[{` indicates the root of a new tree.
```

> The symbol `{` indicates the begining of a branch and the symbol `}` indicates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The symbol `{` indicates the beginning of a branch and the symbol `}` indicates
```

the end of a branch. Finally, the symbol `}]` indicates the end of the tree.

> In the example above we see that the first edge in the tree is:

Reviewer: I would suggest being a bit more generic than "edge". It's not clear whether a BELPin is an edge in the routing tree (irrespective of the fact it is captured an edge in the graph you build for analysis) in the same way that a PIP may be more like an edge in the traditional sense. Perhaps "segment" or "element" may be a better fit?

Author: how about "edge" -> "routeSegment"?

Reviewer: Sure.

Author: done: 07921aec937ae653711f00ac66b324c811286cc2

```
belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C6LUT O6
```
which is immediately followed by a branch containing the edges:
```

> sitePIP SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6 False

Reviewer: Can you explain what `False` means at the end? Maybe we should change how these are printed, or omit them entirely.

Reviewer: Same for the two booleans that follow `pip` entries.

Author: perhaps a sentence explaining that each line simply presents all of the information contained in the [capnp routeSegment](https://github.com/chipsalliance/fpga-interchange-schema/blob/c985b4648e66414b250261c1ba4cbe45a2971b1c/interchange/PhysicalNetlist.capnp#L103)?

Reviewer: In that same sentence, you could also just write out the field names.

Author: see: 399e8268c038d55770e1aa5077aab2c2a9c0ec9c

           |                               |
	   V                               V
          ...                   (belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC OUT)
                                           |
					   V
                                (sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 CMUX)
```

`np.py` can also print out unrouted nets, for example:
```
$ python3 np.py ../vtr_mcml_unrouted.phys u_calc/boundaryChecker/r_ux__57_reg[21]_srl27___u_calc_dropSpin_photon29_o_sleftz_reg_r_n_0
============================================================
Route tree for net: u_calc/boundaryChecker/r_ux__57_reg[21]_srl27___u_calc_dropSpin_photon29_o_sleftz_reg_r_n_0

    Source: 0
    [{      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C6LUT O6
     {      sitePIP SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6 False
         }  belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC OUT
     {   }  belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C_O C_O
         }] sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 C_O

    Stub: 0
    [{      sitePin SLICE_X90Y91 EX
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EX EX
     {   }  belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP
            sitePIP SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP False
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 OUT1

>          }] belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EFF D

Reviewer: For me:
```
    Source: 0
    [{      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C6LUT O6
     {      belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6
            sitePIP SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC D6 False
         }  belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 OUTMUXC OUT
            belPin  SLICE_X84Y94 C_O C_O
         }] sitePin SLICE_X84Y94 C_O

    Stub: 0
    [{      sitePin SLICE_X90Y91 EX
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EX EX
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP
            sitePIP SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 BYP False
            belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 FFMUXE1 OUT1
         }] belPin  SLICE_X90Y91 EFF D
```

Author: please see: 21375b89bb708c37ea993de441617d81958e7896

============================================================
```

> This is the same net as in the first example, however no (inter-site) routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the same net as in the first example, however no inter-site routing (using PIPs)
```

has been done. As a result we see a source and a stub. `Source: 0` shows the

> intra-site routing near the net's driver and `Stub: 0` shows the intra-site routing
> near the net's sink. This example shows a net with only one sink for simplicity,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intra-site routing leading from the net's driver and `Stub: 0` shows the intra-site routing
leading into the net's sink. This example shows a net with only one sink for simplicity,
```

# FPGA Interchange Format Physical Netlist Net Printer `np.py`

> `np.py` is a simple python program for printing out net routing from an FPGAIF `*.phys`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`np.py` is a simple Python program for printing out net routing from an FPGAIF `*.phys`
```
